---
title: Feminism
---

## Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Words](#words)
- [Timeline](#timeline)
- [Pay Gap](#pay-gap)
    - [What is the gender pay gap?](#what-is-the-gender-pay-gap)
    - [What is the difference between adjusted and unadjusted gender pay gap?](#what-is-the-difference-between-adjusted-and-unadjusted-gender-pay-gap)
    - [What are reasons for women to work lower income jobs?](#what-are-reasons-for-women-to-work-lower-income-jobs)
- [Incels](#incels)
    - [What does "Incel" mean?](#what-does-incel-mean)
    - [Who are the people who identify themselves as incels?](#who-are-the-people-who-identify-themselves-as-incels)
    - [How do they view women and why are the views dangerous?](#how-do-they-view-women-and-why-are-the-views-dangerous)
- [Representation in the media](#representation-in-the-media)
    - [How are women described in the sources given? Are these depictions realistic and fair?](#how-are-women-described-in-the-sources-given-are-these-depictions-realistic-and-fair)
    - [Are gendered products necessary?](#are-gendered-products-necessary)
    - [Choose some movies and test them. Which test(s) do they pass/fail?](#choose-some-movies-and-test-them-which-tests-do-they-passfail)

## Words

- women's rights
- gender equality
- wage gap
- right to work
    - economic benefit
- gender stereotypes
- for everyone
- image problem
- education

> "Striving for gender equality"

## Timeline

| Year | US Event                                  | UK Event                                                  |
| ---- | ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1850 | 1st national women's rights convention    |                                                           |
| 1866 |                                           | 1st large suffrage petition                               |
| 1870 |                                           | Married women allowed to own their own property and money |
| 1878 | Suffrage Amendment introduced to Congress |                                                           |
| 1893 | Colorado women get voting right           |                                                           |
| 1908 |                                           | Women's Sunday with 250k protestors (London)              |
| 1909 |                                           | 1st hunger strike                                         |
| 1917 | Alice Paul hunger strike                  |                                                           |
| 1918 |                                           | Women over 30 can vote (men 21)                           |
| 1919 | Amendment gets passed                     |                                                           |
| 1920 | 19th amendment becomes law                |                                                           |
| 1928 |                                           | Women over 21 can vote                                    |

## Pay Gap

### What is the gender pay gap?

It is the difference between the gross hourly earnings between working men and
women. Women earn 16% less than men per hour in the EU.

### What is the difference between adjusted and unadjusted gender pay gap?

Adjusted pay gap takes equal jobs with equal qualifications into consideration.
Unadjusted pay gap refers to the average of all wages regardless of jobs. Women
are overrepresented compared to men in lower-income jobs, which contributes a
lot to the wage gap (refer to next question).

### What are reasons for women to work lower income jobs?

One reason is that the discrimination against women already starts when they
apply for jobs. They get declined more often and have to settle for lower-paying
jobs, just to have a job at all. Another is that women tend to work less hours
overall, as they care for their family when they become a mother for example.
They have to work part-time or have to take breaks more often, which gives them
less opportunities to get a raise and getting back into the job when the break
ends takes time.

## Incels

### What does "Incel" mean?

Short for "involuntary celibate".

### Who are the people who identify themselves as incels?

Men who think that getting laid is a fundamental right. They believe that sexual
revolution made women manipulative and they believe that women only sleep with
chads, which they think are the only male beneficiaries of the female
revolution.

### How do they view women and why are the views dangerous?

They turn women into objects without rights, which includes sexual harassment,
violence and more.

## Representation in the media

### How are women described in the sources given? Are these depictions realistic and fair?

They are described as toys, housewives, depending on the men, submissive,
attractive with sex appeal and they are reduced to their body.

### Are gendered products necessary?

Not necessary, but they get sold better.

### Choose some movies and test them. Which test(s) do they pass/fail?

- Bechdel Test
    - Are there two women with names in the movie
    - Do they talk to each other
    - Do they talk about something other than a men
- Mako Mori Test
    - Does a female character have a narrative arc that is not about supporting
      a man's story?
- Sexy Lamp Test
    - Can you replace the female character with a sexy lamp with the story
      basically still working?
